**zbiór roboczy** (working set) to strony pamięci, do których odwołał się
program (w jakimś zakresie czasu).
**zbiór rezydentny** (resident set) to strony pamięci, które są załadowane w
pamięci głównej w danym momencie
(strony pamięci to tutaj jednostki, które nas interesują)


**zbiór rezydentny**

    $ cat /proc/$(pgrep X)/status | egrep 'Vm|Rss'

    VmPeak:  1587184 kB    Peak virtual memory size
    VmSize:  1533232 kB    Virtual memory size
    VmLck:         0 kB    Locked memory size
    VmPin:         0 kB    Pinned memory size (pages that can't be moved because something needs to directly access physical memory)
    VmHWM:    217360 kB    Peak resident set size ("high water mark"). This value is inaccurate, see statm
    VmRSS:    186288 kB    Resident set size. Note that the value here is the sum of RssAnon, RssFile, and RssShmem. This value is inaccurate, see statm
    RssAnon:   45624 kB    Size of resident anonymous memory. This value is inaccurate, see statm
    RssFile:   64952 kB    Size of resident file mappings. This value is inaccurate, see statm
    RssShmem:  75712 kB    Size of resident shared memory.
    VmData:   182744 kB    Size of data segment. This value is inaccurate, see statm
    VmStk:       132 kB    Size of stack segment. This value is inaccurate, see statm
    VmExe:      1596 kB    Size of text segment. This value is inaccurate, see statm
    VmLib:     77264 kB    Shared library code size
    VmPTE:       744 kB    Page table entries size
    VmSwap:        0 kB    Swapped-out virtual memory size by anonymous private pages. This value is inaccurate, see statm


    /proc/[pid]/statm

Some of these values are inaccurate because of a kernel-internal scalability
optimization.  If accurate values are required, use `/proc/[pid]/smaps` or
`/proc/[pid]/smaps_rollup` instead, which are much slower but provide accurate,
detailed information.


    /proc/[pid]/status

Provides much of the information in `/proc/[pid]/stat` and `/proc/[pid]/statm`
in a format that's easier for humans to parse.

    # cat /proc/$(pgrep X)/smaps_rollup
    00400000-7ffe043f9000 ---p 00000000 00:00 0                              [rollup]
    Rss:              187176 kB
    Pss:               98073 kB
    Pss_Anon:          45948 kB
    Pss_File:          13987 kB
    Pss_Shmem:         38138 kB
    Shared_Clean:      60160 kB
    Shared_Dirty:      76276 kB
    Private_Clean:      4792 kB
    Private_Dirty:     45948 kB
    Referenced:       187176 kB
    Anonymous:         45948 kB
    LazyFree:              0 kB
    AnonHugePages:         0 kB
    ShmemPmdMapped:        0 kB
    FilePmdMapped:         0 kB
    Shared_Hugetlb:        0 kB
    Private_Hugetlb:       0 kB
    Swap:                  0 kB
    SwapPss:               0 kB
    Locked:                0 kB


---

    grep VmSize /proc/*/status | cut -f2 | awk '{ sum += $1 } END { print sum }' &&
    grep VmRSS /proc/*/status | cut -f2 | awk '{ sum += $1 } END { print sum }' &&
    vmstat -s

liczymy wielokrotnie





